good morning everyone let's get started
from your desktop management solutions
team please welcome senior engineering
manager Michael Bob good morning
everyone I hope you've had your copy
because it's early all right my name is
Michael up I am the senior engineering
manager for desktop management solutions
and we're going to be talking about a
lot of things today we're going to be M
going to be talking about what some
apples evolving management strategy is
more importantly we're going to be
talking about what management actually
means we're going to be talking about
how you going to be seeing this stuff
I'm going to give you a light of a
couple live demonstrations and we're
also going to give you some overviews of
some of the features you probably heard
about in previous sessions so let's jump
right into it what is desktop management
this is a slide of youth last year and
we're still using it because it's a
pretty good message what you're doing
out there right now as you're managing
all these machines and hardware and
software as you're probably going to
about three states there's a fourth one
two but three states are you're sitting
down you're getting a new piece of
hardware and you're figuring out what
wants to go what you need what needs to
go on that machine once and then you are
actually deploying that machine out to
users making sure that there has the
right stuff that that's all needs to be
on there then you're managing it you're
making sure the desktop the desktop see
is correct and has the correct
preferences and then you're assessing it
you're trying to figure out okay what
information is on this machine that I
need to get back it's a process of all
of this constantly going around that's
just for a single machine you're adding
more hardware you're adding you're
replacing hardware adding more software
you're constantly managing these
machines and there's another thing that
you're doing things go wrong I gave a
demo on Tuesday what you're going to see
here in a second of ard and it went
swimmingly well we did really well but
at the very anti did one wrong thing and
something on the end of the demo wasn't
quite working so I had to do a little
trouble free I'm a guessing a lot of
what you're doing a lot of the
management tasks you guys are doing is
troubleshooting it's when things go
wrong and we need to be welding tools
and technology to help you with that
so let's talk about a couple scenarios a
couple of different management scenarios
you guys seen this slide this is a
University of Tokyo that's a whole lot
of max what you probably haven't heard
about this slide is that is that there's
not a single hard drive in the screen
what they're doing is actually what
university of tokyo is done in this lab
and this is their districts districts
diskless leanette booting all of these
machines over the wire so what their
management their management solution is
to have a single image on a netboot
server and then actually boot the lab of
every morning over the wire that's
pretty cool they want to redeploy this
to these machines and make it something
completely different they just change
the image on the server and that's it so
that's one that's one of the people that
have using our technology and business
method is something that's actually in
Panther server right now here's another
here's another group of people that we
worry about slide there we go I call
these hostile users they're actually not
hostile what they are excuse me if
they're curious they're very curious a
lot of you out there are managing people
like this these curious users and you're
designing your management policy for
them designing and management policy for
them I know that if you don't do that
what's going to happen is they're going
to design your management policy for you
and so this is another one inspection
our main it's actually our main
deployment is the one to one deployment
what they're doing right now is learning
how to use their ibooks over wireless
what they do for imaging how they get
they actually can figure the machines
they have the imaging station so these
imacs employ these I books actually go
out to an imaging station where they
blow down your images so yeah there's a
lot of different management policies out
there a lot of defeat you doing a lot of
different things out there and we need
to be giving you tools that are very
flexible I want to talk about the word
tools here not giving you applications
applications are like iTunes and all
these other things we're giving me tools
because kind of like Swiss Army knife
you're never going to know what you're
going to need to do we need to give you
things that are very
a variety of different things that you
can do with them because like I said you
have a different management policy than
you you're managing 50 people you're
managing 10,000 machines and the tools
and be able to scale to that there's
another term there's not saying another
goal that we're doing with the products
that we're releasing I call this one too
many management what this is what one of
many management is is the ability to
manage all your hardware software from
your desk you don't want to get up and
be touching every amount of your
machines you to be able to do that from
a single console so you're going to see
that a lot of products and the demos of
the ideas that you can do your
management sitting at your desk the
other thing we've done another one of
our goals is we've got to be involved
with technology there's a lot of
different things that are happening
right now first off you've got wireless
and becoming very prevalent so you don't
know whether you're going to be on a
network or off the network how do you
have a management policy if the users no
longer on your network you've got
portables people are opening and closing
them so they may not be on and off and
again they might be leaving the network
you've got hybrid infrastructure you've
got pcs you've got linux boxes I know
you have these so you've got to be in
you gotta be able to get interact with
those so what you're going to see here
we put some features in to allow you to
interact with some of those and the
other thing is you've got an explosion
of Mac OS 10 applications that you again
you're going to want to manage these
things so how we're going to show you
guys a bunch of stuff today to actually
actually how you to help you with that
ok so first thing we're going to do here
is going to talk about alpha remote
desktop to which I believe you now all
have a copy of so I'm going to give you
guys a demo of that I'm going to go in
some detail they're going to talk a
little bit about work with manager we've
got a new preference management strategy
i'm going to give you guys a good
demonstration of we talked about the
mobile home directories feature this is
the feature that you're expecting a
mobile home directory when we talk about
system imaging and we talked about
software update server as well we don't
have demos for all of these and some of
these actually not in the DVD you have
but um but we're going to give you get a
lot of detail around each of these
features okay let's move along okay ard
this has been my life for the past three
months it's all I've been doing so
now those of you how many of you have
used the ARD 12 excellent wow that's
just about everyone seen this screen
before this is the one to screen right
now this is a little long in the tooth
as a way that I think about it it's um
it's a very useful interface but it's
sort of it's sort of dated then you have
the our favorite multi observe for
windows open that's it you know very
mobile interface so what we've done over
the past year is we've completely redone
it we've completely don't we take the
lead on a or d 12 I mean air deep into
the apple remote desktop to product it's
it's pretty it's not just pretty but
what it is it's also extremely used
wouldn't go into a big demo of it right
now you can look we kind of adopted the
iTunes interface from management console
we've also improved the multi observe
this is a this is observing 34 machines
in one of our labs watching a video clip
right now I'm going to show you this
again a second as well so but before I
jump into the demo which is really the
actually interesting part I want to talk
about the goals what we had for ARD
first off we wanted to do a flexible
administration console here's this word
console again that I keep using console
again is not just somewhere that you
execute command it's a desktop right
it's where you're actually going to
store information and give yourself note
and you want to stay there and do a lot
of management from a desktop we want to
really make sure that the application
gives you the ability to manage um
easily manage a lot of small deployment
as well as large deployment you're going
to see a lot of the features a lot of
the HR is really scalable now we also
know like I said earlier that you've got
a lot of portables out there you've got
hardware that's coming and going and how
do you interact with that how do you
assess what's going on with that so
you're gonna show me every different
improvements there and we've embraced
open source we've actually rewritten the
entire screen sharing pro time screen
sharing on the BNC protocol what's a
virtual network computer so you can
actually observe and control not only
max but other machines as well really
quickly some big-ticket features that we
put into ard
you saw already we back at the brand new
user interface we've improved multi
observed vastly we've introduced a task
metaphor the task is basically a any
action that you can do against a set of
computers you can actually say that
reuse it schedule it schedule again and
again so we that we've given that in May
that kind of a first class object we've
integrated scheduling into tasks as I
just said so it's really easy to have a
set of tasks we can actually use and
reuse on a scheduled basis you see
scanners everywhere first thing you're
going to do when you pull this out of
the box you can go look for machines
right so we give me a lot of different
ways to actually find all your assets on
the network from the architectural
perspective again we've totally
rewritten screen sharing on VNC this is
an open protocol and it means that you
can actually go and observe a pc or
linux anyone who's running BNC on the
server so we've also added some great
amazing speed improvements to it as well
you can feel much much better than
putting it too much better performance
and against air21 to be putting this is
you guys are like this one we put a
sequel database as well the sequel
database behind that's holding all the
reporting data and if you want you can
go and access that and use it whatever
means that you want thank you so and
also we've done an offline reporting
architecture which is to address the
mobile deployments what this is is
currently in a rd 12 product you ollie
reporting and everything at admin needs
to be running to get all the reports
what we've done is we've allowed you to
specify an alternate data source for
reporting information so you can
actually have clients which are
reporting up to that data source whether
or not the admins running so that way
you can always have up-to-date data
about your deployments whether or not
the machines are there or whether or not
the admin is running as well my favorite
feature send UNIX this is a command it
allows you to send any unix command to
your set of machines if you can do it in
UNIX you can do it via ard we show this
in a second if it could very exciting
we've got more asp asp we've got a huge
amount of data that you can actually
pull out of these machines as well we've
got directory integration and we've also
really simplified client installation so
enough of me talking let's go to to here
and take
at this but first i'm going to get my
water there it is running right now
we've got our set of remote desktops
over here on our left these nine machine
that I'm going to be controlling so I'm
just a quick lay of the land in ard what
we got here is like I said it sort of an
itunes interface over here on the left
you've got all our different computer
lists I've gotten my master list got a
test list I've got my problem children
I've got a video lab I've got a bunch of
different machines these are all this is
my basically my assets that i have here
i have the scanner which i'll go to in a
second gives me the ability actually
scan from machines and then i got the
save task feature what this is this is
just set of past that i've kept and
these are just dummy task but giving the
idea of some of the things you do we've
got to lock the video lab on to the tasa
close that lab down make sure the
screens kind of looks like this means
everybody go home really simple thank
you so what you saw here when I EDD is I
just execute our first task and I want
to give you guys a little bit of a
explanation about what we're looking at
we have the main window here and what
happened when i ran the task was this
past progress came up but the task
progress is is it the detail about
everything that just happened in that
task so what I did was I went and ran a
path again taste machine and it
succeeded really easily what you have up
here on the Left be colleagues a select
o matic we call that that i'm not short
marketing calls it but but these dudes
these actually allow you to select
groups of computers based off of what
their state was does everything work
here everything it's selected but if you
had some tasks it actually fail
reporting to inactive something you
didn't occur you can actually go and
easily select it and do that these task
progress show up for every task that you
run if you don't want this coming up you
can turn it off and it's have a
preference and if in via the preferences
and you can just look at it here again
here's the task that just ran right
there alright and so that's just a quick
overview of the of the interface all the
other thing is we ard does a lot of
different tasks got show you guys this
there's a lot of things you can do right
and as other commands in there that dude
things you can't even imagine so we'll
go ahead and we'll actually create a
scanner first so I'm going to do here is
I'm actually scanning a local network in
ironically i'm seeing all of my machines
right there let's go ahead and first
unlock them another task unlock success
let's go ahead and create a scanner now
you can create as many of these scanners
as you want you can just do a little bit
and so let's go ahead and create one
let's see we leave it all the machines
that we're currently seeing I'll go
ahead and create any one from this list
will call this WWDC LA there it is it's
a pretty simple thing the list of
computers what you're going to see is
anytime that you can see a list of
computers using ard multi observe report
you can constantly create lists from
that some is to actually make yourself
post-it notes is what I call them
actually say I need to do this is that
to a certain set of machines so we have
our w WC live list right here but let's
talk them maybe I have a different way
they want to look for machines maybe
maybe you've got an Excel spreadsheet
that has all of your assets in it all
the hardware you want to use it's really
easy video file import to actually just
drag any arbitrary file it's got IP
addresses you can take it plop it in
there and we scan it any file long as
it's got IPS wouldn't find it so PDF
Excel whatever you want so however
you're managing it if and as they go and
edit that file if I just want to reload
it i can just we load it and critic
again start creating lists from there so
once you've got your set of machines the
first thing you probably going to want
to do is you want to upgrade them
because everyone's probably running a or
do you want air d 12 right now these are
all actually up to the two oak these are
all actually up to the 20 client right
now but it's quick to show you how easy
it is to take a or d 12 and bring it up
to the 20 is we've got an upgrade client
software if these machines were 12 what
you'd see if you actually see them in
there you can authenticate to them but
the current status would be old software
ard 124
all you have to do to actually upgrade
it select those machines click upgrade
we install a package when we start the
agent you're golden that's it it's a
single click upgrade all the software a
really handy feature so let's actually
do a different task here what I want to
actually do is I'm going to change them
from client settings on these machines
let's go ahead and walk through client
settings and what client settings is
doing is it actually setting the
preferences for the client so let's say
the Asian software has already been
upgraded so I want to set some
preferences I'm what the menu extra to
be there again so we kind of have a
setup assistant kind of walk through
we'll go through and we're going to say
I'll leave the main i'll leave the you
start up four elements they'll have it
enabled I'll leave the menu bar running
I'm not going to create any users right
now I'm like I spent as specified any
access privileges I am going to talk
about this one really quickly but this
but that's setting here this first one
here set request permission options this
is guest access this is one of the most
requested features that we've had what
this is is the ability to say okay I
maybe have some politics in my my
deployment I have people that are fine
with helping me but I find with them
observing my desktop but I want them to
ask before they go in what guest access
allows you to do is to specify okay I
can be observed and controlled but only
at my permission so what will happen we
set this permission is it'll actually
prompt when you go to control one of the
users it will actually prompt them say
you want to you want this person
actually help you out so they get a
bigot at least bigger they get app they
going to be respond and um allow you to
a run it allow them to be observed you
can also set this VNC viewer access if
you've got other VNC viewers you want to
use you can actually do that in here as
well what I'm going to do just for this
demo is actually set of some of the
system information go ahead and put the
field they're set that what you're
seeing again here it is the task window
everywhere anytime you want to cache
you're going to see this just took real
quickly to give you a little bit of
detail about this what you see down here
are these two buttons these are always
on every single pass this gives you the
ability to schedule the task this was in
the current product but we now we've
made it really easy to use
and also if you want to targeted at a
set of machines you can do that as well
hear what it's going to go ahead and run
this I'm just going to set one client
setting one system information setting
we'll go ahead it's going to copy it
down there there are task progress going
to the status changing all on machines
over there and I can't see anything
there as it goes and install the package
and changes all settings changes all the
settings a little bit more about the
buttons in the task progress you see
these others you have you seen these
other double buttons up here what these
allow you to do is actually repeat tasks
or if you want you want to actually
duplicate it you can easily just create
another task based off that so if you've
got something that you want to say well
I was close with this task but it wasn't
everything that I wanted can actually
create another task right there as well
lots of flexibility ok so we've updated
our client software we've done some
settings let's do that lock screen again
because that's always interesting I'm
gonna lock it it's pretty handy so um
let's um let's actually do some let's do
some real word scenarios let's say that
um let's say that we've got a version of
Safari out there and a new version of
Safari out there you want to know
whether or not these systems have safari
or not or which version they have I have
a version on this machine that I want to
use as a baseline but what I want to do
is I want COK relative did this machine
what version of these other machines
have I happen to know they all have the
same version but for sake of the demo
let's go ahead and just generate a
report okay you guys all use one too
you're all wondering how did that report
come up so quickly because normally it's
this live live active reports that you
come that you see in 12 what happened is
what I was talking about earlier is we
have we have we have a sequel database
under there and when I was doing is I
was actually running the report from a
cash it was built a while ago based off
my am based off my reporting policy if
you was the first time that this
reporter had actually been run it had
been a bit a little bit longer as the
machine was actually casting and doing
that so let's see here this is our
report window again
it's a computer list if I want to create
a list from here it's really simple
let's say hypothetically that these four
machines have an older version of Safari
just like every other window I can go
ahead and create a list of this i'll
call this old Safari Safari old all
right now I have yet another list
that'll work from and again the idea
here is I left a little mental note for
myself saying okay these have old
version Safari I want to copy something
down to this so let's go ahead and
actually copy down a package I'm getting
into sort of the software distribution
features of ard what does it we're going
to do here is actually in a copy of
package this is a dummy package that is
just designed for speed rather than
usefulness go ahead knock I've got a
stomach Safari package which is actually
need to copy it down just give you an
idea of the install package feature this
is something that we had on 12 so it's
the same feature with the whole new task
metaphor wrapped around it you can
install any set of packages what's going
to happen here is the packages we copy
down and install is going to be run and
it's going to be installed let's go
ahead and just do that again detailed
task progress copy copying the package
down it's installing success knock on
wood everything's going swell okay so
what we did there was we actually copied
it down and now we installed whatever
package we had just had right there so
let's actually verify that let's go
ahead and open up safari on these
applications on these are machines over
here so what I'm going to go ahead and
do is use the Oakland Oakland
application task again task just like
any other what we're seeing here is all
the tell via all of the applications i
have on a local machine i'll go down to
safari wherever that is as go ahead and
open it and it's opened great along the
Internet excellent okay so let's go
ahead now and close the application
close the application oh there is no
close application that's right we don't
have a close application command this
gives me an opportunity to show you
something really cool we have a command
called Sen Yuen
so we added as a part of this part of
the ARD to send unix is pretty much what
it sounds like it is the ability to send
a unix command and efficient machine
that you want remember you're running as
root on both sides so don't get yourself
in trouble so what I'm going to do here
isn't actually going to go and since I
don't have a close application i'm gonna
type kill all safari again what this is
doing is this is sending this command to
all of these machines let's go ahead
click send all the windows are gone
success send unix i don't know what you
guys are going to do with this but it's
a lot of flexibility it's a lot you can
do a lot an amazing amount of stuff
there for example what's to do a couple
other examples let's go ahead and um
let's say I didn't know there was an
open application command so I'm gonna go
ahead and use the open command set the
ascent unix and we go ahead and run it
pretty much the same thing as opening an
application maybe you want to do
something else maybe there's some other
command line utility that you want to
use it doesn't matter as long as it's in
is on the system that you're running on
it's available we'll go ahead and let's
go ahead and do one other one let's do a
system set up i'm going to go ahead and
get the computer name well i have one
two or three four again there's this um
we didn't i have no idea what you guys
going to do with this is it was a huge
amount of flexibility with this command
and it's think it's going to be really
exciting it's going to be a huge time
saver i'm doing simple commands here
what if you want to put something really
complex together go for it have a great
time okay so that would send unix let's
talk a little bit more about reporting
here as i said a little bit earlier we
have the ability to have offline
collecting of reporting data we just
show you guys how we actually set that
up i'm actually not going to demonstrate
it but just to give you an idea from the
admin perspective what you need to do so
here's my preferences window let me go
ahead and jump over to data collection
what you see here as i have the ability
to say listen don't get reporting data
from me get it from somewhere else you'd
set that there then if you wanted to
change you
wanted to change for the clients to say
okay don't use me as a reporting
resource use someone else it's again
it's very similar to everything else
that we have been showing you you just
set the reporting policy here it is the
task again what this says to these
client machines is don't use me use
someone else and do it this often again
so this is the idea is to give you the
ability to have mobile computing dumping
the data to a mobile computer jumping of
data to this database so you always have
a fresh that I did it as fresh as it can
be right cuz you can't record you can
actually get data from a machine that's
not there but you can't get the last
time i was there so we're improving the
likelihood that you can get a good
quality report from the set of machines
that you're managing all right so let's
do a little bit more let's try a file
search I'm gonna go ahead and do a file
search I'm a search for the word when
the search for incredibles well
incredible go ahead I'll go and do that
again nice and staff first time that's a
you do it and maybe a little bit slower
but the second time it will be nice and
fast we'll go ahead and see this we
found looks like a QuickTime movie here
again I want to go back to the idea that
all of these windows the path that you
can do again from the verb that you can
do to them you can do in any of these
windows so I've got a report here this
is a report static report instead of
data it's actually not it's a computer
list which says this computer has this
set of information on it so I'm going to
go ahead and I actually click the open
selective which is saying okay this file
search result I want you actually open
that I found these things go ahead and
start running go ahead and open it with
whatever the associated application is
which in this case is quick time you're
going to see a trailer here a second and
see Incredibles but again this is in
traditionally interesting but what's
really interesting is how you're going
to use this in a lab situation or a MIDI
nao some sort of institutional situation
it's a really handy way of actually
opening application setting an initial
state forum for the desktop that you
want and again once again we have
success all right so
what I want to do here is now that I've
got this trailer running and you're all
distracted looking at that you're not
looking at me anymore so I'm what I'm
going to do is I'm actually we use one
of these tasks down here just to show
you little flexibility of the interface
so I defend unix command down here with
system setup one was this one this is
open there and so what was I doing I
forgot that command that I like oh it
was kill all that's right so let's go
ahead and use this again I just did it i
duplicated the task and the quicktime
player player i'll go ahead and send it
all cleaned up except for the one that i
didn't select because I probably didn't
do them all that's right so I'll
duplicate it again I'm at this time
since i missed the other ones what i'm
going to do here is I'm actually going
to grab the ones that I didn't run
against remove the ones we ready did it
against grab the ones we are still lying
on drag goes over into the oilman's get
a little real estate here so I goes up
into the well again these windows it's
not a modal interface we've gotten rid
of all the modality the interface you
see I'm doing is I'm jumping around
moving stuff between different wells got
a little more real estate here I can
imagine a lot of task windows the task
progress maybe being up on the entire
time if they flexible tool so go ahead
and send us command to kill the
quicktime player which is still running
and we're all done or all cleaned up
okay so that was a little bit of asset
management we did a little more show
showed you got some of the reports again
we haven't thought of everything are you
going to do with this that's really your
job to figure it out so um what we're
going to do now is going to go into a
little bit of the more demo both
features of ard because they're so
visual as we've already um I've already
showed you a little bit of a little bit
of the reporting and the other feature
that we have here we're going to get
into with some of the interaction stuff
so what I'm going to do to set this up
as I'm going to do another powerful
feature kind of akin to signed eunuch so
I'm gonna do is I'm going to copy an
applescript down this apple skip is just
doing some binders stuff to actually
give the little visual interest to the
screen here but again i'm going to do is
I'm going to copy down and I'm going to
run it
and the idea here is that you could do
whatever it's sort of our Apple script
you want to do it's a good way to
actually distribute some sort of
automated tasks you want to do again who
knows what you're going to do with it
you was giving the ability to do so so
let's go ahead and do that I'm going to
go ahead and copy the items down what I
have here is i'll go ahead and copy
items a little bit of detail on this one
here this is very similar to the one to
feature it so it's basically saying okay
go ahead and copy this file down I'm
actually put it on the user's home
directory and the thing I'm going to do
here is different as I'm actually say
once it's there kind of like we did with
the incredibles trailer i'm going to say
go ahead and open it i would have it
there so what it's saying to me is like
listen are you sure you want to
overwrite this you bet I do okay once
again success here to go to the screen
and the demo on Tuesday and we just
started watching that and I don't want
you to watch that I want you to watch me
so locked handy okay so what's going on
behind a screen right now is where the
finder scripts still running but as I
showed you right there just give you the
ability to kind of focus the attention
again this is more for so the
institution or the lab situation so um
let's go ahead and unlock those let's
talk a little bit about observe and
control everything seems to be going on
reasonably well you see here as the
students are sitting at their desk top
the current application status of
changing this one's in finder this one's
my only text edit I don't know why but
they're moving along so let's go ahead
and start up with what they are do you
want to use it look like there you go
you got your four screens get your
students doing whatever they're doing
right now but you know there's a lot
more machines out there than four right
what you want to do is you want to look
at a lot of machines and maybe you don't
want it to be that size you want it to
be this size if you want it to be this
size who knows multi observe is vastly
improved know whether you've got two
machines and we got 200 this is going to
be a really handy way for you to
actually do a look at these machines
let's just quickly go through the task
bar well you have a peer of all the
tasks you can do against it just like we
can do in any other lists all the tasks
work so let's do this my favorite
command today lock all the screen it's
just like any of the other windows
anything else you want to do to these
machines any other tasks you want to run
you can do so we'll go ahead and select
them all unwelcome close it again
they're merrily going along p.m. this
first slider up here gives the ability
to adjust how many machines you want
again really want for you want to how
many do you want what's on the next page
maybe I want to look at two and I want
to see something on the next page or the
next page or the back page the idea here
is that you can actually set you can set
multi observe however you want what
you're seeing is I'm not actually
clicking anything and it's still going a
little cube transition effect I thought
that would wake you up you guys it's
early in the morning but it's actually
what it's doing is doing on a timer so
the idea here is I set up some sort of
multi observe situation I just want to
glance the machines or maybe I like the
cube effects it doesn't matter if I want
to adjust it if I want to adjust the
time I can just adjust over here I've
turned it off right now because you know
after a while it going to get to knowing
but so the other thing is we actually
have the ability to change the codec
that's being used right now so what
you're seeing right now is thousands of
colors if you want to go to a different
one you can go up to millions or you can
go down to grayscale why would I will go
to grayscale why don't I want full color
you want you don't want this because
it's taking up a lot of bandwidth maybe
you're really starved for bandwidth and
you want it to look like a very old
version of some OS who knows but the
idea is here these codecs give you the
ability to adjust your multi observe
session to whatever you whatever your
bandwidth situation might be so um let's
go back at the el amor color here give
us a little more machines to work with
again I'm going to hammer this them to
keep on saying this one because it's
really important there's a lot of
flexibility here before you need a multi
observes window up open you couldn't do
anything else you were looking at the
machines you want getting the cool cube
effect now you can do whatever you want
you want to open this one here okay
do that one want to control this one
here and this is sorry control that one
over here click there we could loop slow
down control that there we go is our
second window open sorry I don't really
want to that big I don't want this one
this big sorry students excellent thank
you it's really flexible again what
you're going to do with it how you're
going to set it up who knows we're
getting you the tools to get yourself
into whatever sort of trouble you want
alright in a single observe you're going
to see a couple different you're going
to see a couple different options here
what I'm seeing here is I'm looking at
this machine right now and I'm actually
not controlling it and I know that
because I got this icon up here we
should sort of the universal control
icon and we have if I wanted to take
control all I need to do is click it
boom I'm in control now click on system
preferences it's doing its little bouncy
thing over there and it cutting it pops
up these scripts are still running so
I'm five sort of fighting for attention
with them right now but gives you the
idea the other one here is um the
ability actually share the cursor with
the user but if you want me if you want
to you can actually turn that on and off
so it's someone's fighting for their
cursor you can just turn it off and they
don't have any curse eventual they can
still see what you're doing on a machine
but they can't actually start dragon
with it Mark Martin you'll be talking
with shortly was messing with me the
other day so I just turned when he was
sitting at one of the machines fights to
turn it off the other thing the other
thing that you can see is maybe you've
got some sort of weird resolution
situation if you maybe you're looking
one of these massive machines maybe you
want a lot more detail if you've got a
less less resolution we've actually
added a new mode called panning that's
not a very good version of it which
allows you to move around if you want to
actually have a little bit more detail
you want to maybe a lot more detail on
these screens and the last option up
here is the ability to take a screenshot
you just want to say okay this is great
this is how I want to take a screenshot
captures it to the local desktop all
right so multi observe vastly vastly
superior let's go ahead and close this
and we talked a little about the color
we talked a lot about a lot of stuff so
the other one is um we talked about
controlling and we talked about
observing now the other one we have
the ability to actually send the screen
sending the screen is sort of a special
case because what you're doing is you're
actually going to send this screen from
this machine to all of the other
computers this isn't popular for maybe
in a training situation when I say watch
me take a look at this you can actually
give people a live demo using the same
technology for as observant control I
want to talk about this window really
quick what's going on here is I'm going
to share this screen but you see there's
another option that says share an other
screen what you can do with ard to and
the prior version so you can actually
broken our agreement between two
machines and say listen this gentleman's
screen over here I want you to see it
see the rest of it the vessel screen
anywhere you can set up whatever
arbitrary screen sharing relationships
you want again schedulable and all the
other things are there so here we go
there i am in eight machines one thing
you probably notice is the task progress
is still up what happened there was this
task is still going on right screen
sharing is still going on to actually
getting that idea and you're getting an
interesting read raw eggs as well erase
that ok so go ahead and stop that
machine control comes back there but we
have thing that you saw here in this
window right there is you actually see
the you can actually see what job how
many screen sharing relationships you've
defined I don't have one running right
now but you can see that's a good place
to manage those as well so I'm that's a
really quick super fast version of a rd
just to get us cleaned up and start up
what we're going to do is something
that's a lot of fun is actually glenelg
and restart all these machines this is
the thing that didn't work on the demo
on Tuesday we're actually going to do it
right this time what we're going to do
is actually we have these scripts
running some of these things have text
edit running so I'm about to actually
lose some data because I have text edit
files with data in there but we have the
ability to actually restart and just you
know close the user so maybe at the end
of the day you actually want to just
shut them all down or we start them if
you in this case thank
oh there's one more thing sorry there
was one more thing so all these machines
are offline right now they're black
right um there's one other there's one
other thing that's a really good benefit
of screen sharing is we've got this one
machine here took VNC probably wondering
what that is you can probably guess at
this point this is another machine you
don't actually have all the ARD
functionality on it but such as all the
task but what you do have you have the
ability to control this machine if you
need to in a pinch yeah we like to make
fun of it but the fact of the matter is
you guys got a lot of different hardware
out there and you need to interact with
this so here we have we have a PC under
there we have the ability to control
just like anything else it's if you're
running it you can actually use it
you've got a remote desktop for PCs this
is a great feature if it's a linux box
and it's a pc whatever you want you now
have the ability to observe and control
it's important to remember you don't
have the ability to do all the other
tasks that's a whole other part of our
technology can't do the copy items
that's just a screen sharing piece so
that's a rd 20 if you guys like it i'd
like to hear a round of applause because
we've been working on
okay about they are deep and there's a
lot more coming all right um first off
with mobile home directories you guys
aren't going to get a demo of this but
you're going to get a hero a lot about
it right now I have an apology first we
had a feature in a panther cold mobile
account and you guys said mobile
accounts that's a great feature I want
to have I have the ability to actually
catch my local account but a lot of
people said listen does it actually
catch my entire home directory no it
actually doesn't it was just the account
so Panther was mobile account what Tiger
will have is a feature called mobile
home directories this is a feature that
you're expecting right this is the
ability to have it's the ability to have
a bit essentially a mobile home
directory yes that's way to call it it's
the idea is to provide a mobile
solutions for portables portables are on
the network and they're off the network
what the network to be much of home
directory be local so you can actually
and you can actually take you know you
haven't went home directly to be vocal
so that you can actually have a mobile
solution so that when the network's
there you can actually use it we want to
we want to leverage the convenience of
network storage if there's a mobile if
you've got a network home or medical
amount network excuse me a network mount
you want to actually have how to use it
there you have it be there back up to it
the other thing is we want to build a
solution on top of the file sync
services actually building into Tiger as
well so let's talk about how it works so
you're pretty standard basic setup what
you're seeing here is actually for
mobile home directories the basic yeast
case is this I'm a user who's gentleman
right here in the front row I login i'm
an admin i'm sorry i go and i say this
gentleman's account is mobile now what
happens is the first time he logs in he
gets a morning says listen you're about
to go mobile do you want to cash your
account in your local home directory and
he gets to choose something and gets to
basically choose what we call the truth
the truth is this the truth is saying
listen I'm the user I'm smart enough to
know that my either my local home
directory is the current version of the
directory I want or the server version
is and they take it and they say my
local home directory is the one that I
be using and then we go and it copied
via the synchronization services it
copies it from one direction to the
other in whatever choice you had you
could also say I trust my admin admin
home directory up in the server is the
one I want to use and I'll sink it down
and then what happens is nothing
actually something one little thing
happens it's trickle thinking as you're
making changes because your local to the
local home directory they're being
synced back up to the server you're not
seeing this in any other way except via
the menu extra what happens and this is
the cool part is when the network goes
away used to solve your humble home
directory it's just sitting there and
it's waiting for the network mount to
come back but it all the change in all
the changes I think nothing's happening
there's no network bandwidth there it's
just sitting there waiting when those
networks mounts come back the
synchronization occurs again so this is
a very very very powerful feature that's
something everybody wants because
everyone has portable computers they may
have a network home directory hey so um
let's talk about the let's talk about
the case that everyone cares about this
is the error case that everyone everyone
wanders about it because what what if
the dog does eat my ibook right that
means is what if my ibook vanishes and
this this case actually really gives you
a good example of what this power this
feature is so this is the scenario we
care about let's just walk it through so
how we can talk about how mobile home
solve it first off let's just say the
ibook is eaten ok so the years are
somehow get a new ibook right and
they've already log in once before using
the mobile accounts feature and what
happens is what happens is the
synchronization I login I've time to my
network password it says oh you've
already logged in you've already had a
mobile home directory but the sync
between the network store and a local
store is out of date so again you get
the same choice you had when you started
you're going to pick the truth again
you're going to say listen it's got my
network home directory because that's
the current version of what I had and
what it does it does the same thing it
does at the initial login it gets the
truth gets copied down again from the
local
so what you lost in that case is only
what what happened between when you went
up the network i'm on a dog actually at
your i blog thank you I'm greatly
simplifying this feature I know you guys
are Sunni going well what about this or
what about that and there's a lot of
different ways to synchronization as
hard as these flood I originally had and
it is hard synchronization is very hard
thing to do we want to you can't get
into a case there's a lot of cases you
want to avoid with mobile home
directories you want to avoid the
multiple rider situation multiple riders
is this is I don't my mobile I've got my
mobile home that i'm using my local home
directory and typing away i'm changing
stuff and somehow someone is also typing
and or getting data into my network home
that's a bad thing because we're not
talking about a single file we're
talking about thousands of files it and
we don't want to give you guys suddenly
a case where you're getting thousands of
conflict dialogue you saying pick this
pile picked up this fat file how we
solve this is when the mobile home is
checked out when mobile home its first
bound to a network home directory and
checked out you can't get to that
Network home administrators can get to
it but the users can't get to it so you
can't actually select a store basically
up on the network home directory home
directories are also extremely complex
these is semantically intertwined files
as lots of files if you're getting
conflict dialogues how would you know
which one to pick because you don't even
know what the file is right because a
lot of stuff that's non-human readable
so we actually that's what we talked
about that's what get this concept of
the truth we're just saying listen we
want to do big block copies of that
network homes to move them around the
other thing is we're going to give you a
lot of flexibility maybe you don't need
to do the entire home directory maybe
you only want to do portions of it and
you just want to say i want documents to
be synced just the documents folder
that's a little bit easier than so you
can really go ahead and you'll see do
you can actually define a policy that
makes sense for your users so mobile
home directories are not actually in the
tiger server this is an excited server
version that you have but this is a
feature that we're going including it I
think you guys are going to like this a
lot I think it's going to be a lot of
usage of this feature so moving along
software update server again a well
named feature this is the pretty much
exactly what it sounds like the problems
we have with software update right now
is
that there's a lot of software updates
and again your policy may vary an apple
they just let us install whatever we
want but at an educational institution
maybe you want to have some control over
what updates are actually installed or
maybe you want to do some testing before
its installed there's a lot of them
coming out your job is to really make
sure that all of your hardware and your
software is working the other thing is
that bandwidth can be really expensive
right it's never cheap so the thing is
is they'll be also when you for example
when you have a 10-3 for update maybe of
getting a lot of date you maybe you're
getting a lot of bills because any one
of your use this is actually pulling
down this big huge update so we wanted
to put together a solution to gave you
basically way of proxy software updates
but also gives you the ability to maybe
intercept in the test before they
actually land things so here we go here
are again let's talk about how it works
what you're seeing here is um i'll do a
simplified version of this well you see
what happens right now when you click
the software update bought and compliant
as two things happen first off the
client says listen tell me what I need
to know tell me what I need to download
terms of software updates relative to my
machines I've call out the catalog then
it says okay and tell me where I can
find them those are the two things that
happen right now and what happens is all
that information comes from either our
comes from our servers via the internet
and it goes to your client that's what
you're spending a lot of the time so
there's a lot of transactions are
happening from your clients up to the
servers and back and forth and back and
forth them the catalog isn't big it's a
small file but the updates can get
really big what software update server
does is a allows you to put a
server right in the middle that serve as
a proxy for all of the updates that you
have there as gives you the ability so
this server is the only one who's
actually talking to our service to
actually put on the catalog on
information and to pull down the updates
as well so there's all this talking that
single server so it's a really handy way
for doing that and as you probably
expected it's very it's integrated
straight into server admin so the
screenshot again this isn't in the tiger
on a DVD that you guys have but here you
go and can take a look at it it should
look very familiar it's basically the
software update client plopped into our
server here but there's some other
options can actually mirror you can
actually give the ability to mirror
updates enable or disable them you can
define your policy however you want
maybe you just want to mirror them and
just save the bandwidth costs you don't
want to worry about you know testing
them before they go in
and you're going to ask can you own your
add your own updates to this you can't
currently you can't do not gonna be able
to give you that part of thi your server
let's get that question done right now
so so there's a lot of features that we
have as part of software update server
there's a flexible approval policy can
you judge smear everything or do wanna
prove things or or do I want to
selectively approve we have bandwidth
throttling in here as well so you have
the ability to if I'm worried about
maybe a lot of updates coming down to my
servant I want to wedge my server you
can actually adjust bandwidth throttling
on it the other piece of this the other
half of this equation here is software
update client right you got to be able
to do something about that you got to be
able to point out another way so as you
can see here in a little bit we're gonna
actually show you management via a
workgroup manager you could we so stop
garba clients can be a high level plug
and it allows you to be managed VM
workgroup manager you could also use
remote desktop to copy your preferences
out or we can just go individually to
the clients and actually manually
configure them but each of the client
that will support the ability to point
at a different server all right moving
right along we also have a technology
called netboot and net install it is are
shifting consistent imaging solution for
those of you who don't know netboot
comes in basically two flavors there's
the ability to netboot kind of like the
University of Tokyo did which is booting
from an image over the wire and then
there's the other half of the technology
which is netinstall where you actually
build images that actually are installed
down to different machines we've spent a
lot of time on the last release in this
release on at Oracle that we originally
called network image utility now what
gaming's utility has actually been
redubbed system image utility because
it's not really the network that you're
imaging you're actually imaging system
that makes sense what happens what
happens when you have a single image is
you run into a situation where you want
to have specific client information on
each individual clients for example I p
addresses or a machine name or something
like that so what you're going to see a
lot of the features that we put into a
net put in that install is the support
for directory services I can build an
image and I can put my can also add
directory services information we can
have per CPU directory services binding
information associated with it we have
the ability to say okay
I don't want to this machine I don't
want these set of hardware to boot them
this we have model property Phil ting
and also I know this is something that
everyone's been interested in we have
the ASR block hobby what this means
thank you it's our block cubby for those
of you who don't know why everyone is
clapping means really fast installs so
that's something else that's going to be
in there so and also we have the ability
to set machine specific settings
rendezvous computer name hostname all
these things so that my boot from the
machine I have unique information
associated with it on when I use one of
the net boot installs so take a quick
look at a system image utility this is
the same like tool as before you're
going to see some I knew some new
features here we have the ability to a
change of by host processes do some
checks home checking on it after we
install this is the new ability to
actually have an image be associated
with a certain set of hardware and then
the ability actually set client settings
on it for these for these images as well
so that system is utility we're working
on it hard we love your feedback about
it we want to make sure that this is
just a great application to be able to
do system imaging with so ok last but
certainly not least it's going to be the
work with manager discussion when you
get back to a demo here so managed
desktop this is a very big term that is
desktop I could have one thing before
you guys leave here it's a really
understand what's going on with managed
desktop managed desktop is basically
managed preferences what's happening
with managed desktop is via the server
via open directory you have the ability
to define a set of preferences in some
cases which are associated with the
users groups and they're actually
blasted out as it passes out and copied
down to an individual computer at login
window time so this way a man is desktop
really allows you to set the user
experience when they log in make sure
they've got certain mounts already there
make sure the user interface looks in a
certain way and because it's integrated
straight into the Cline you all have
this ability as long as you have to get
your long as you're learning open
directory the other thing about man is
desktop it's extremely backwards Lee
compatible meaning that if you have
tiger server with
work with manager running there's going
to be features that are going to be only
specific to Tiger but you're also going
to see plugins from Jaguar features that
were only a maybe in Jaguar or maybe in
Panther we do we do it a lot of work to
make sure that you can continue to
manage back as far as where basically
when managed desktop first landed so
here we are preference management you
can see this in a second this is a work
what manner than the preference pane
that our users over there on the left I
got all the preferences that looks very
familiar there's a system preferences
over there you'll see that I'm you're
gonna see this in a little more detail
in a second but the idea is these are
all the preferences that you can set
there's a hitch though what you find is
what we found is what the feedback is
all of these preferences are really
associated with things that are Apple
all these management revolutions that we
have our system preferences or things
that are ours and fortunately for us
there's a lot of other applications out
there there's a lot of new features
coming out in the US and other stuff so
we need to have a strategy which scales
around this we need to have the ability
to actually manage things which are
outside of our domain and what we're
going to do we've added as part of as
part of tiger and tiger server is we've
added a preference editor this gives you
super fine grained control over the
preferences this is not for the weak of
heart it's something that it's something
that I'm what you I can get in and you
can tweak whatever you want in terms of
preferences the thing about preferences
and what you'll quickly what's going on
here what you're seeing here it's
actually the preferences for a Peter and
Kimmie here they've got got preferences
associated with a dashboard which is a
new feature there's no high-level
plugging for that finder QuickTime
Player Safari the terminal and dock or
you're going to see here in a second you
can actually drill down and you get a
sheet which gives you the ability to
change any of this stuff so that means
next time that this person logs in
they're going to get these preferences
associated with it and it York week to
whatever you whatever you guys want to
be able to do with them there's one
other quick news mother
thank you there's a catch though p lists
are not necessarily human readable we
like to go in there and to tweak around
say well what's going to do well that's
interesting right so we've what we've
done is we've and they also actually
have them contains features of the
product that you don't even know about
and you go well I'll add this and see
what happens so what we're doing is part
of a mac OS x server pregnant I your
servers we actually introducing the
concept of a preference manifest a
preface manifest is a template for
Petra's for a template for preferences
it says listen I know you're a human
being and you want to be able to
actually read these preferences it's a
template that we use to actually
describe preferences in a way that's
useful and you're going to see this here
in a second as part of our supply of our
demo here obviously for preference
manifests to be useful they've got to be
everywhere so what we're doing is first
off we're um we're making we're working
with the application groups at apple in
the tools group to make sure that a
manifest is included as part of every
bundle so that would mean like this I
wanted to manage Safari let's say how I
work it is actually pull this far I
preference manifest put it in there put
it into the prep insider you will see
this in a second and I can see all the
things that are manageable as part of
this so um the demo preference manifests
and manage death haven't had mark
Raymond what the engineers on the team
come up here and give us a little tour
and I can stop talking for a second oh
my dork everybody
my name is Mark Rommel and the QA lead
for the managed desktop product and
let's just get started what you see here
now is I'm currently running 10 for
client this is the same build that's
been distributed to everybody here you
should most of you have probably already
installed this I also have the server
administration tools installed and I'm
running workgroup manager in the local
node who here I mean pretty much
everybody I'm gonna assume is run worker
manager but who is run a preference
management for any users groups okay
cool we're going to give a little bit of
a high-level overview before we jump it
right into the preference management so
I'm running worker manager in the local
node I'm running the same build
everybody has you can run in the local
node but primarily you would really want
to stick for a server client solution
this is a pretty tube is probably too
powerful to use on just a single client
declines scenario and not everything
will work I've created a couple users
for this demo I've got username a shell
a local home directory defined for each
one of these as well as some preferences
defined for each user for this user I've
got finder and doc and for the people
who haven't used worker manager for
preference management we're going to
jump right in for the finder here I've
set and always preference currently for
since 10 to we've had two different
types of preference management we have
well never nothing is managed for this
particular high level plugin we have an
always management option which will then
copy press that we've defined in here to
the to the clients manage domain each
log in these these preferences will be
rewritten to the managed domain which
you probably just found is in the
library management references username
and then the other option here we have
is once these preferences will be
written the first time the user logged
in after these preferences have been
defined into their users home directory
so for example if I were to set these
preferences here via once these would be
defined when they log in but then they
could change it right now I've set this
as always maybe to reduce clutter for
the demo here we're not going to show
hard disks removable media
etc and always additionally for these
users these both these users have the
same preferences I've also said doc
preferences pre standard I've defined
this as my default user template for
these two users they have safari mail I
chat whatnot and pretty standard doc
display I don't want the user to change
this if it said via always when they log
in it's locked so let's go back to the
preference overview and for those of you
have been using worker manager for
preferences for a while you see this new
feature that Michael showed earlier this
is details currently I've said some
finder preferences which are defined in
the finder plist and the global
preferences plist and the doc to list
the first part of the demo I'm going to
do here is I've set these preferences
but I want to tweak them a little bit
more than what they were probably
designed to do so what I'm going to do
is I'm going to open up the doc
preference right here and we have
something that Michael didn't catch
touch on earlier we have always and we
have once we have this new management
feature we're introducing 44 tiger this
is called often this is a this is like
always but it's written every time the
user logs in its rewritten into their
home directory so maybe for a kiosk or a
classroom setting you want users to have
a little bit of flexibility you want you
want to give them the creative control
to make mistakes but the next time they
log in we're going to wipe a clean slate
so these are the preferences that I've
said for the doc we've got a lot of
strings a lot of the stuff doesn't
really make make much sense
magnification I can set this to true but
I'm not really sure what that does some
of you guys out there already play
around with pila I'm going to add a new
key i'm going to call this key inning
and i'm going to add and i'm going to
save this and it's done so for this demo
right here since i'm running locally i'm
just going to fast user switching to
this mark user
bang so you've probably already seen
that the doc is over here this isn't
this is something that a doc does it's
built into the OS nobody really knows
about it I'm sure pretty much everybody
here is probably played around with that
as well oh and for the people new to
preference management notice I cannot
move the doc I can't change the size it
says doc preferences it'll bring out the
system preference pane with blank
options everything will be grayed out
and mutable and that's it an important
point before I jump back to the
administration console as I've set this
preference for mark but as you've seen I
could have very easily selected a group
groups a computer list I could have
easily said the setting for hundreds if
not thousands of potential clients in
the future and it's Michael touched on
earlier everything I've set here will
will be set and written to preferences
back to 10 to four clients will be what
we love we will support now of course
since Keith change and new keys are
introduced all the time we can't really
promise everything will be managed but
nothing nothing will nothing will harm
those older clients let me log back into
the administration console oops ok so
we've we've created an example
preference manifest for the doc just to
give you an idea of what the preference
manifest can do we saw all those options
earlier we saw a boolean we saw true we
saw some numbers we weren't exactly sure
what they did so we're going to add
something to this list my desktop manage
preferences and its manifest BAM the doc
has changed it no longer gives a generic
pilas description it's no longer
italicized this is more of a native
thing to the preference editor this is
telling us that things are defined and
if we go in here we look at this again
we have human readable text we are we
see a largest a tile size this tells us
and we have a description for each of
these strings below it gives it that
would tell us what might not be common
sense for example this minimization you
I true to disable the minimization
effect pop-up menu etc etc
this is pretty slick since we also tweak
this file there's something in here
that's getting our attention something
that's non native to this particular
plist right here the pinning this
doesn't match and it says right here
additionally the template files we
change for the doc items we added Safari
and a couple other things those are also
flagged is non-default so that's a
pretty big pretty basic overview of the
preference manifest now the second part
of this demo that I'd like to go into is
editing individual strings and keys it's
great now but that's very time-consuming
what I'd like to do is what and what a
lot of people did for other products
before is using say for example this
administration account I've created to
mimic preferences for a different user I
can change settings here in the
administration console on and push those
p lists to another user group computer
list for this demo I've got a user
called Michael let's say for example I
have an engineering manager is a bit of
a control freak and he likes things his
certain way I'm going to change things
for him i'm going to set things up the
way he likes since he's a bit of a
control freak he likes granularity he
likes the ability to manage anything and
change any setting than he can he wants
he wants everything there and he never
wants to launch the system preferences
utility so what i've done here is i've
added everything I could to the menu bar
I'm going to push this preference on to
Michael great let them have it so we're
going to go into my this is my
administer anything for those of you who
haven't been using this before I'm in my
admin admin account library preferences
and I've taken the time to find out what
she actual plist here has been modified
this is the system UI server plist and
this is now been set for Michael and
just to give me an example that to that
and and I earlier i edited a doc plist
and i and i showed you the finder pilot
but here I'm going to set this via often
this is the default for now here you go
you can add even more to this or remove
things that you don't want see what else
is Michael like hmm Michael's probably
like a lot of you guys out there he
likes this terminal green on black he
likes to be able to see through it let's
give it to them we're going to go back
into my admin account library
preferences we're going to find the
terminal plist there we go so we can try
logging in as Michael but what's going
to happen you'll find out ok there we go
we've got his michael has all his menu
items thank you thank you for for
example he Michael did not have the doc
defying the same way that the Marquis er
did so Michaels back in the center with
a default items and he also has terminal
there we go
so now we're going to do a little bit of
a bonus round I was pretty surprised
during Steve's keynote on Monday to see
the bleeding edge new items that he
added and what we're in Michaels earlier
screenshot we've got dashboard this is a
this is brand-new this is a I mean can
we manage it let's find out so I've set
up for Michael Michael likes things a
certain way he likes everything
staggered and stepped let's see what
happens give you to do calm down Apple
dashboard pad mm-hmm ok so I'm going to
type that no that's right logging back
in is Michael there we go so I running
these running worker manager in the
local node it's probably a really good
example of how developers can use use
worker manager to see if their
applications are managed or not but for
most the IP folks out there this would
be a great way to test locally on your
machine your laptop sitting in a hotel
room I just installed this new software
I got this developer conference can it
be managed tested locally before
blessing the plist out to everybody else
and basically we're hoping that we're
giving everybody the ultimate control
and granularity of preference manifests
for this release anything said via see
if preferences can pretty much be
managed and as you've seen you can make
it as easy it's easier as difficult as
you want it to be especially via
preference manifest you for some keyless
there might be keys that have hundreds
of key there might be pls to have hordes
of keys hundreds of strings but a say
for example you are only going to manage
a few of those you can set up reference
manifests with just descriptions and
values for those three and leave
everything else if it's too confusing or
maybe grid them out so there you go
michael clarke
I had no idea I was so fond of menu
extras so let's see yeah that's a
managed desktop demo there you can see
there is again the concept tools what
are you guys going to do with this
giving you a lot of tools be able to do
a lot of different things with
preferences and degree of the preference
manifest the there's something here that
you want to do this is more for the
developer community out here as well as
we want you wanted there's things that
we'd like you to do to actually support
manager applications this means all
these appliqu it first one is out of
the gate is using CF preferences this is
all the games off you're not using cfk
fortunately a lot of people already use
that we would like to avoid by host
preferences that's something those are
hard to manage so um better support is
obeying forced preferences what you
didn't see is in marks demo is this a
forester always pref is something that
you've basically saying to your user I
don't want you to touch this I know
better so but there's a commitment you
need to have a commitment from the
application to say listen oh this key is
managed and I don't want them to change
it so like you saw in the dock there it
was actually disabled that's something
the application actually needs to do and
like best support is we are good support
is including a manifest make it easy for
the administrator to manage your
applications it's not it's not up on the
website yet but we're going to do is
when we go publishing a managed desktop
white paper for developers to make it
really easy for people out there to
actually make your applications
manageable so um system administration
is all the time you're doing it all the
time 24-7 what we hope we've done with a
lot of the applications in the
technology we've shown you and you'll be
seeing and eventually in Tiger Tiger
servers they're like helping building
reliable reproducible infrastructure I
want to make sure that you guys are
actually doing this work from managing
one too many machines and like a free
white hope what we've done is we provide
you a lot of tools and not just
applications so with that I'd like to
say that you already have these tools
we're sitting in your goody bag right
now you've got a or D and your bag right
now you can use it try it out we'd love
to hear about it and soon you're going
to have the final version of tiger and
tiger server these are the things you
need to manage 24-7 and I'd like to
thank mark and everyone else for thanks
for your time and we're going to be
bring some people up here to answer any
questions you have but all the
technology we're doing thank you very
much
[Applause]